#Review of Wilson miners 'When We Build'

This talk has truly inspired me and forever altered my way of thinking.

“The potential for what we do” This statement by Wilson Miner during his ‘When We Build’ talk spoke to me immediately. During his talk he states “It is a uniquely exciting time to be designing Interfaces, interactive digital tools and products.” as an aspiring UX Designer I believe he is right.

The world is full of tools, “things”.. that we surround ourselves with and that have the potential to reflect who we are and shape our lives. They may also hold our memories, our stories... reminding us of people and moments in our past as well as symbolising our future. It is no secret that the Tech world is rapidly advancing and subsequently so do the wants and needs of the human race. We wait patiently on the release of these “things”, such as the latest iphone with its new, exciting features and we imagine how it will improve our lives when we have it, as Wilson Minor states “They become a symbol of ourselves.”

They surround our everyday lives, from a car.. to a home.. to the things that fill that home. We see them in our future, we set goals to acquire these “things” and feel amazing when we do. We shae them with other people, we pass them on and one day those people may do the same.

To quote Marshall McLuhan “We shape our tools, and thereafter our tools shape us” I found this particularly inspiring. On reflection of this I analysed the environment around me and I could immediately see what McLuhan meant by this. ‘My world’ is shaped around tools.

I particularly liked when he spoke about how these tools extend our abilities and how we adapt around them. “A computer is the equivalent of a bicycle for our minds” this is undoubtedly my favourite quote from the talk. It made me appreciate how powerful of an extension a computer is. It's truly incredible what can be achieved with the right tools.

“Time to screen” In the morning? Waiting for the bus? Sitting at home? I had never really given a vast amount of thought to how all the “gaps” in my life fill up with screen interaction. Then I thought about the other people in my life, family, friends there lives are just like mine, filling the gaps where possible “interacting digitally with the world”.

My 79 year old grandmother spends a lot of of time on her phone, online, watching netflix on her smart tv… all these tools make her life easier. She is deaf and for 25 years she couldn't hear calls from her son in america but because of this “tool” she can stay in contact and see videos and photos of her grandchildren as they grow up on a regular basis. This single tool shapes her life, a tool designed in such a way that even at her age she feels comfortable to use. If it didn’t exist her life would be much different, as would our own. 
Wilson Miner believes that the screen will shape the 21st century, and what WE do as designers will shape how these screens look and feel for the entire world, responding to our environment, the smallest changes we make can be the most transformative.

He states that “What we surround ourselves with will shape what we become” and he is right, our environment is always changing and therefore we must be always learning. “We are a product of our world and our world is made of things, but we are also its designer. We decide where to live, what to surround ourselves with, and with who and what we spend our time and energy on”

Wilson miner